# Styled components

- `yarn add styled-components` || `npm install styled-components`
- Used to styling React components using CSS-in-JS. It allows you to write CSS styles directly inside your JavaScript files, and it ties the styles directly to specific components. Features:
  - Scoped Styles: The styles are scoped to the component, meaning they won't leak into other parts of your app.
  - Dynamic Styling: You can pass props to styled components to dynamically change their styles.
  - Familiar Syntax: Styled Components use template literals to write CSS, so if you already know CSS, you can pick it up quickly.
  - Component-Based: Since the styles are attached to components, it encourages building UI in a modular, reusable way.
- We can pass properties. Ex:

```js
import styled from 'styled-components';

const Button = styled.button`
    background-color: #00AAF0;

    ${({variant}) => variant !== 'primary' && 'color: #FFFFFF'}
```

## react-router-dom

- Library that allows you to handle routing in your React application
- `yarn add react-router-dom` || `npm install react-router-dom`
- Modules:
  - `BrowserRouter as Router`: base component that wraps around your entire application to enable routing. It uses the HTML5 History API to keep the UI in sync with the URL in the browser.
  - `Routes`: holds all the individual Route components. It is a new feature introduced in React Router v6, which replaced the Switch component from previous versions.
  - `Route`: defines the individual route paths and the components that should be rendered when the URL matches the path.
- Example:

```js
<Router>
  <Routes>
    <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
  </Routes>
</Router>
```

## react-hook-form

- Library that allows us to manage forms in React
- `useForm` is the main hook provided by react-hook-form. It manages the form state and provides methods to handle form inputs.
- It returns an object with multiple properties and methods:
  - register: A function to register an input with the form.
  - handleSubmit: A function that handles form submission.
  - formState: An object that contains errors if any input fails validation.

## react-icons

- `yarn add react-icons` || `npm install react-icons`
- Library that provides a collection of commonly used icon packs as React components. It allows you to easily include icons in your React projects from different icon libraries like Font Awesome, Material Icons, Feather, and many more.
- Key Icon Libraries in react-icons:
  Font Awesome: react-icons/fa
  Material Design Icons: react-icons/md
  Feather Icons: react-icons/fi
  Bootstrap Icons: react-icons/bs
  Ionicons: react-icons/io
  Heroicons: react-icons/hi
  Remix Icons: react-icons/ri

## Axios

- `yarn add axios` || `npm install axios`: Used to make HTTP requests (e.g., to fetch or send data from/to a server) in both the browser and Node.js
  - Promise-based: Axios returns a Promise, which allows you to easily handle asynchronous operations using .then() and .catch().
  - Handles JSON: It automatically parses JSON responses, so you don’t have to manually do it.
  - Supports HTTP Methods: It supports all common HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.
  - Easy to Configure: You can easily set request headers, query parameters, timeouts, and more.
  - Interceptors: Axios allows you to intercept requests or responses before they are handled. This is useful for things like logging or token authentication.
- Ex:

```jsx
import axios from "axios";

axios
  .get("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/1")
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response.data);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
  });

const api = axios.create({
  baseURL: "http://localhost:8001",
});

export { api };
```

## JSON Server

- `yarn add json-server` || `npm install json-server`
- Used to generate fake data for testing purposes
- `json-server --watch db.json --port 8001`: starts the server and watches for changes
  - db.json: the data that will be used in the server
