# Creating first project

## Babel

- JavaScript transpiler (translator) for a version that all browsers support
- `npm init -y`: create a project using package.json file containing all initial information
- `yarn add @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react babel-loader -D`:
  - @babel/core: The core Babel package that provides the fundamental functionality for transforming JavaScript code.
  - @babel/preset-env: A Babel preset that automatically determines the necessary plugins to transform modern JavaScript syntax for older environments.
  - @babel/preset-react: A Babel preset specifically for React projects, adding the necessary plugins to transform JSX syntax.
  - babel-loader: A Webpack loader that integrates Babel into the Webpack build process, enabling the transpilation of JavaScript files.
  - The -D at the end indicates these are development dependencies, used during development and build, but not included in the final production bundle.
- Create .babelrc: Babel configuration file

## Webpack

- Module bundler (empacotador de modulos) for JavaScript
  - Unit the archives into smaller bundles
- `yarn add html-loader html-webpack-plugin webpack webpack-cli webpack-dev-server style-loader css-loader file-loader -D`:
  - html-loader: A Webpack loader that integrates HTML into the Webpack build process, enabling the transpilation of HTML files.
  - html-webpack-plugin: A Webpack plugin that generates an HTML file that includes the bundled JavaScript code.
  - webpack: A Webpack build tool for JavaScript.
  - webpack-cli: A Webpack CLI tool for JavaScript.
  - webpack-dev-server: A Webpack development server that automatically rebuilds the bundle on changes.
  - style-loader: A Webpack loader that integrates CSS into the Webpack build process, enabling the transpilation of CSS files.
  - css-loader: A Webpack loader that integrates CSS into the Webpack build process, enabling the transpilation of CSS files.
  - file-loader: A Webpack loader that integrates files into the Webpack build process, enabling the transpilation of files.
  - The -D at the end indicates these are development dependencies, used during development and build, but not included in the final production bundle.
- Create webpack.config.js in the root of the project

## React

- `yarn add react react-dom`:
  - react: A JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
  - react-dom: A library that allows us to render the component on the DOM.
- Add on package.json:

```js
"scripts": {
  "start": "webpack serve --open --hot --mode development", // Starts the development server
  "build": "webpack --mode production", // Builds the app for production
}
```
